---
project: color4bg.js
stars: 625
description: Cool colorful backgrounds, generated by JS
url: https://github.com/winterx/color4bg.js
---

color4bg.js
===========

Super easily generate dynamic, abstract, and visually stunning background images for your web pages based on WebGL and JavaScript. High performance.

Demo
----

Please visit: color4bg.com

🚀 Features
-----------

-   Customizable Colors: You can specify an array of up to 6 colors that will be used to generate the background pattern.
-   Dynamic Animation: The generated background can be set to loop, creating a mesmerizing, fluid animation.
-   Consistent Patterns: By providing a seed value, you can ensure that the same pattern is generated every time, making it easy to integrate into your web design.
-   Easy Integration: Simply import the \*\*Bg class and create an instance with your desired settings.

📦 Usage
--------

To use color4bg.js, follow these steps:

> For example, if you want to add Aesthetic Fluid Bg:

1.  Import the AestheticFluidBg module js file:

import { AestheticFluidBg } from "../build/jsm/AestheticFluidBg.module.js"

1.  Create an instance of AestheticFluidBg with your customized settings:

let colorbg \= new AestheticFluidBg({
    dom: "box",
    colors: \["#D1ADFF", "#98D69B", "#FAE390", "#FFACD8", "#7DD5FF", "#D1ADFF"\],
    seed: 1000,
    loop: true
})

Key

Value

Describe

`dom`

`string`

Id of DOM element where to append colorbg, no need to add "#"

`colors`

`Array`

An array of up to 6 hexadecimal color values

`seed`

`Number`

A Pseudo-random numerical value used to generate a consistent pattern.

`loop`

`Bool`

Determines whether the background should animated looply or not

#### For more usage, see examples

All Background(Bg) Types
------------------------

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
